Safety of children in school is a touchy issue for both parents and school management. But when Covid-19 struck, it complicated the subject even further.
Schools may have reopened for some learners, but many parents are apprehensive about their children’s safety and the capacity of schools to guarantee it.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
}



For candidates, it’s a case of being thrust between a rock and a hard place. 
Schools, like other public institutions and facilities, are high-risk places due to the high number of people involved and the level of contact.
Already, dozens of cases of Covid-19 among schoolchildren have been reported across the country since learning resumed about a month ago.
While the school management may partly be responsible for the safety of your child within the school premises, as a parent or guardian, you’re ultimately accountable for your child’s safety. 





So, how can you ensure that your child is safe at school?
Below is a breakdown of simple but critical guidelines parents and guardians can take to keep their child safe from the virus while at school.
Talk to your child about their safety
The key to ensuring your child’s safety is to talk to them about it regularly.
Talk to them about the precautions to take such as avoiding crowded spaces, sharing items with other children and their personal hygiene.
Make them understand the risks of not observing these protocols.
In so doing, let them know that their health is their responsibility. 
Additionally, seek to understand if your child feels comfortable in the school environment.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-2");
});
}



It’s also necessary to find out from them if other children in school observe the protocols you’ve taught them.
This way, you’re able to gauge the level of risk your child may be exposed to at school.
To do this effectively, strike a conversational tone. Use child-friendly language.
Make them comfortable to share their fears and concerns and other vital admissions. 
Talk to them about the importance of reporting to the authorities in case they are taken ill.
Scrutinise the school’s safety measures
Did you visit the school to assess its preparedness before sending your child back? How well-equipped is the school to prevent infections? 
The Ministry of Health (MoH), World Health Organisation (WHO) and Unicef have guidelines that public facilities, among them schools, should observe for safety of residents and visitors.
That said, it’s your duty as a parent or guardian to ensure that there’s no crowding in classrooms and other shared spaces such as the library and dining hall.
Make sure the school enforces acceptable hygiene practices such as handwashing and sanitising by providing running water and soap.
It’s important for the school to teach proper handwashing techniques to the learners. 
The school ought to have physical barriers in areas where the learners queue for meals, for instance.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-3");
});
}



Visible signage on protective guidelines such as social distancing at assembly points, for example, should be provided to aid learners.





As a parent/guardian, ensure that the school provides infrared thermometers for taking temperatures of learners.
While at it, encourage your child to regularly take their temperature.
Insist that the school bus is disinfected before transporting children to keep infections at bay.
Teachers and support staff must also have basic knowledge on the virus to help with enforcement of the guidelines. 
MoH: Even more crucially, find out if the school has set out procedures for identifying, managing, reporting and referring suspected cases of Covid-19 among learners or members of staff.  
Provide masks, hand sanitiser and other safety gear
Ensure that your child has a face mask on and a hand sanitiser before leaving for school.
MoH: The sanitiser must be made up of 60 per cent alcohol content to be able to neutralise and kill the coronavirus
Where sanitiser isn’t available, soap will suffice.
MoH: Teach your child how to thoroughly wash their hands (for a t least 20 seconds).
For small children, demonstrate to them how to wear a mask properly.
Ensure that the face mask meets the WHO standards and that it fits well.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-4");
});
}



If your child has a medical condition such as breathing complications that may not allow wearing of a face mask, encourage them to be extra vigilant.
WHO: Children under two years should not be forced to wear a mask.
For those in boarding school, pack enough of these items to last the pupil for the duration they will be in school.
If need be, provide hand gloves as well. You could also make arrangements to supplement the items during the term.
Also, it’s your duty to constantly remind your child to wash their hands, sanitise and to keep their mask on at all times when in the company of others.
Engage the school actively
By talking to teachers and the school management, you’re able to keep tabs on what’s happening away from your view.
Parents who cultivate a warm relationship with teachers are more likely to know about their children’s welfare while in school.
Should your child be taken ill, you can count on the school to attend to them in your absence.





Find out from the school how you can contribute to making the school safer for your child and others.
Where some parents can’t afford masks or sanitiser, for instance, donate to the school.
Remember, the safety of your child depends on the safety of other children and the school community.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-5");
});
}



Positive? Take action
If your child develops a cough, fever or general body exhaustion, it’s necessary to take them for a Covid-19 test.
Remember, some patients don’t exhibit any symptoms. Either way, regular testing is recommended.
In the unfortunate circumstance that your child is infected with the virus, take them to a hospital.
Ensure that they self-isolate at home with minimal contact with others.
Provide them with fluids and starch to restore their energy.
For children with underlying conditions such as asthma or cancer, extra care should be taken.
Reassure your child
Having to go to school in the midst of a global pandemic and the associated risks can have far-reaching psychological implications on your child.
Your child is likely to be anxious and to be worried about possible infection.
Such anxiety can adversely affect their performance in their academic work.
It’s, therefore, important for you to reassure your child that all is well if he/she observed all the guidelines without fail.
Remember you’re your child’s primary support system.
Listen to and address any fears that they may have. 
Lead by example
Do you wear a mask in public and sanitise regularly? What example might you be setting to your children?



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-6");
});
}



When growing up, children’s behaviour is largely influenced by their parents’ conduct.  
They assume that what you’re doing as an adult is the acceptable, and end up imitating you. 
If you don’t wash your hands regularly or sanitise, do not expect your child to follow these guidelines.
Wear a mask, wash your hands and sanitise to set a good example. More Covid-19 infections reported among learners in various schools across the country. County executive for health says 115 students have been placed on quarantine in the school. Detectives will review footage capturing events of September 21 at around 10am outside the KRA offices. A spot check by the Nation found patients lying helpless in beds with relatives preferring to transfer them to private hospitals The talks aim to reach consensus before referendum signatures are handed to IEBC.