The two inmates, citing claims of torture, shouted to members of the public asking for help. There was drama at the Voi GK Prison on Monday after two inmates staged a rooftop protest over alleged torture at the correctional facility. 
The duo climbed to the roof of one building within the prison premises, then proceeded to shout to members of the public below for help. They requested assistance to get justice while alleging that they were suffering at the hands of warders. 



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



They claimed that efforts to have their grievances resolved have been futile since they are being beaten and tortured for fighting for their rights.
However, an officer in charge of prisons in the county, Bison Madegwa, said the inmates were new to the facility and were out to incite others.
"They just came in the other day after they were transferred from another facility. The matter is being addressed by the officers in charge," he said.





Over 48 inmates were recently transferred from other facilities to Voi GK Prison.
Officer in charge of Voi Prison, Kennedy Ondijo, refuted claims of torture by his officers.
He said the inmates finally climbed down after hours of negotiations with the officers.
"The inmates have been helped to climb down safely by our officers. There were no injuries," he said.
lmkanyika@ke.nationmedia.com  A video posted online shows officers apparently brutalising female students. The man is said to have gone to her house after a drinking spree and demanded to spend the night there. Mr Noordin Haji terms last week’s decision unfair and without any factual or legal bases. Ms Agnes Wangui said in court papers that the Matungu MP sired two children with her. The televangelist was charged with killing the woman by dangerous driving.