Estates to be affected by the closing of the pipeline include Nairobi West, South B and South C.Others are estates on Jogoo Road, including Buruburu, Makadara and Hamza as well as the Industrial Area. Taps in several estates will go dry as Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company (NCWSC) shuts a key pipeline on Mombasa Road.
The shutdown today (Thursday) and tomorrow (Friday) is as a result of the ongoing construction of the Nairobi Expressway.
Nairobi Water MD Nahashon Muguna said the action would facilitate the connection of the new and old pipelines at Lang’ata and Mombasa roads junction and enable ease of the expressway building from Nyayo Stadium to Isuzu East Africa.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



Estates to be affected by the closing of the pipeline include Nairobi West, South B and South C.
Others are estates on Jogoo Road, including Buruburu, Makadara and Hamza as well as the Industrial Area.
Shortages will also be experienced in areas around City stadium, Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, the standard gauge railway, Athi River Export Processing Zone, Coca Cola, Mukuru, Imara Daima, North Airport Road and Embakasi.





“NCWSC Ltd will shut down supply pipeline on Mombasa Road, starting Thursday 6am to Friday 6am,” a notice published in the dailies yesterday said. 
“We appeal to our customers for indulgence and also urge them to use available water sparingly as we work towards restoring supply.”
Water disruptions have been frequent as NCWSC grapples to meet demand.
Families in the capital city have had to endure rationing since April 2017, with most estates getting water just two times a week.
The daily demand far outstrips supply. 
Nairobi requires 810 million litres of water a day, against an installed production capacity of 550 million litres.
Ndakaini and Ng’ethu dams supply 480 million litres to Nairobi daily.  The business of selling water thrives under such circumstances, and in several parts of the city. Sports betting company now even more committed to giving back to the society Sonko will need 24 elected senators to survive his removal from office. The DP's ally, Feisal Bader, garnered 15,251 votes to trounce ODM’s Omar Boga who secured 10,444 votes in the hotly contested poll. Ministry of Health estimates that the first batch of the recipients will cover 20 per cent of the country’s population.