Kenya Film Commission (KFC), in line with its mandate and function of promoting development of local content, is running a Film Empowerment Programme (FEP) to provide film and video-related support in the development of feature films, documentaries and TV concepts, as well as production, marketing and distribution.
In the first cycle of the programme, individuals, companies and organisations were required to submit funding applications to the Commission in select categories. Specific conditions were laid down for each funding category, and it was important for applicants to take careful note of the conditions before submitting their applications.
The programme is aimed at increasing the number of quality local films made in Kenya.
KFC received 72 applications and evaluated the applicant’s responsiveness to the mandatory requirements. From these applications, 45 were nominated. Out of these, KFC awarded 12 filmmakers a total of Ksh25 million. Three of the beneficiaries received funding for development of their concepts, while the other nine received funding for production.
The 12 beneficiaries are from Embu, Uasin Gishu, Kwale, Nairobi, Machakos, Kisumu, Kajiado and Murang’a.
The Embu County beneficiary hosted a team from the Commission at Kawvu Caves, one of the locations for the production of “The Medicine Man” by Betty Kathungu-Furet of Furet Films.
The film looks into the place of traditional medicine in today’s society, the influence of western medicine on societies that are still deeply traditional, the place of the modern woman in her traditional society and community education on health matters.
KFC was also recently invited to a film set in Nakuru County, by another beneficiary – Rocque Pictures Limited – who are filming “Safari” in various locations in the country.
Notably, both “The Medicine Man” and “Safari” have created employment opportunities for youths as witnessed in the high number of young crew members on set. The spill-over impact onto the surroundings in which the films were being shot amounted to employment opportunities for the local communities in areas such as catering, transport, accommodation, local casting, among others.
The second cycle of FEP is now open. The call for proposals puts emphasis on content for children as well as film festivals and markets.
These are in addition to the other initial categories: Development, Production and Distribution. The close of submission is December 18, 2020. Cholo Abdi Abdullah, 30, is facing six counts of terrorism-related offenses arising from his activities as an operative of Al-Shabaab. By Monday evening, the renewable energy expert was still fighting to stay in office. Sonko will need 24 elected senators to survive his removal from office.