Belgut MP Nelson Koech was also released at the station after spending the night in police custody.Muthama and Koech said they were never given reasons for their arrests, neither did they record statements.  Former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama has been released from police custody. 
He was let out on a Sh30,000 cash bail after spending the night at Mombasa port police station. 
He was, however, released at Diani police station where he had been taken in the morning after being transferred from Mombasa. 



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



Belgut MP Nelson Koech was also released at the station after spending the night in police custody.
The two said they were never given reasons for their arrests, neither did they record statements. 
Mr Muthama claimed his arrest was made using trickery, saying the police had asked to assist him on claims that there were goons who were planning to attack him. 
"I was in fact given VIP treatment by those officers who asked me to sit at the front seat only for them to later take me to Mombasa," he said. 





He said that when he got to Ukunda and asked the officers where he was being taken to, he was told that the regional police boss had instructed that he go to Mombasa. 
When reached for comment, regional police boss Gabriel Musau declined to speak on the matter.
Mr Muthama later thanked the people of Msambweni for victory in the poll, saying it will be the same in 2022.
He was accompanied by Governor Salim Mvurya and a group of leaders at the station when he was released. The former Machakos senator is accused of causing a disturbance. Bader garners 15,251 votes in a hotly contested by-election. Cholo Abdi Abdullah, 30, is facing six counts of terrorism-related offenses arising from his activities as an operative of Al-Shabaab. By Monday evening, the renewable energy expert was still fighting to stay in office. Sonko will need 24 elected senators to survive his removal from office.