Travel to Europe is set to change in the near future. From 2022, the European Union (EU) will launch ETIAS, a brand new visa waiver and travel security scheme. This will mean that tourists to the Schengen area will need to take extra steps of preparation before arriving at the border.
What is ETIAS and how will it change travel to Europe?
ETIAS stands for European Travel Information and Authorisation System. It is a new digital framework that is designed to pre-screen foreign arrivals before they travel to Europe.
If, like many people, you are wondering how this will affect travel to Europe and what visitors to the EU need to do to get ready for the change, this article explains more about how ETIAS will function. It also outlines the additional steps that passengers will need to take before departing for an EU Schengen country.
What will ETIAS change for visitors to Europe?
ETIAS’s launch in 2022 will mark a change in how travellers from outside the EU can come into the region. Up until now, those arriving in Europe from visa waiver countries have been able to enter the borders of the Schengen area with just a valid passport with at least six-month validity remaining.
However, after ETIAS goes live, this will change. From this point onwards, it will be necessary for passengers to fill in an online form and receive security clearance via a registered visa waiver.
This process will operate very similarly to the US ESTA visa waiver system. Applicants will need to apply for an ETIAS visa waiver online at least a few days to receive an approved EU travel permit before travelling to an EU Schengen state.
Once approved the visa waiver will be valid for three years or until the applicant’s passport expires (whichever comes first). It will allow multiple entries of up to 90 days at a time into Europe for business, transit, and tourism purposes. 
Who needs an ETIAS visa waiver?
The ETIAS visa waiver will be a requirement for anyone visiting an EU Schengen state with an eligible passport from a visa waiver country. This includes visitors from the following nations:
Albania; Antigua and Barbuda; Argentina; Australia; Bahamas; Barbados; Bosnia and Herzegovina; Brazil; Brunei; Canada; Chile; Colombia; Costa Rica; Dominica; El Salvador; Georgia; Grenada; Guatemala; Honduras; Hong Kong; Israel; Japan; Kiribati; Macao; Macedonia; Malaysia; Marshall Islands; Mauritius; Mexico; Micronesia; Moldova; Montenegro;  and New Zealand.
Others are Nicaragua; Palau; Panama; Paraguay; Peru; Saint Kitts and Nevis; Saint Lucia; Saint Vincent; Samoa; Serbia; Seychelles; Singapore; Solomon Islands; South Korea; Taiwan; Timor Leste; Tonga; Trinidad and Tobago; Tuvalu; Ukraine; United Arab; Emirates; United Kingdom; United States of America; Uruguay; Vanuatu; and Venezuela.
Of note, however, is that once visitors have arrived in the Schengen area, they may visit any other of the 26 countries in the borderless zone without further passport or document checks.
The ETIAS visa waiver is only required to initially enter the EU Schengen zone. Once inside, visitors can enjoy the freedom to move across the majority of the European continent without needing an additional travel permit.
What is the purpose of ETIAS?
The creation of ETIAS was first proposed by the EU commission in 2016. It is to be implemented so that the regional government can safely ensure the integrity of the Schengen area’s borders.
The system will help ensure that foreign visitors entering the Schengen zone do not pose a risk to the health and security of EU citizens and residents by pre-screening them before arrival. It will also ensure that travellers to the country do not contravene immigration rules by overstaying in the territory.
How will ETIAS function?
ETIAS will require passengers to take a number of additional steps before a trip to Europe. Fortunately, the action that needs to be taken is relatively simple and straightforward.
First of all, visitors will need to register for an ETIAS visa waiver online at least 96 hours before departure to a European destination. Travellers must complete the web-based application form by providing the following:
Full nameResidential addressAge and date of birthValid email addressPassport informationAnswers to security and criminal record questionsThe country of arrival in the Schengen area.
Once this has been completed and sent, the information will be scanned and reviewed by several EU informational and security databases. If the applicant meets all the correct requirements, a confirmation notice will be sent to their registered email address.
In the event that an ETIAS visa waiver application is declined or rejected, applicants will always receive a notice explaining the reasons for the decision. They can then reapply immediately and re-enter any missing or incorrect data or provide extra documents as necessary.
When entering Europe, passengers should carry a digital or physical copy of the visa waiver approval notice with them so it can be presented at the border along with their passport. The Entry-Exit System (EES) will also electronically check to see that each foreign passport holder has a registered and corresponding ETIAS visa waiver.
It is important to note that travellers with more than one passport must only enter the borders of Schengen with the travel document used to register for their ETIAS visa waiver. The travel authorisation is linked to the passport used during the application process and failure to use the right document could result in being denied entry into an EU Schengen state.
ETIAS will represent a significant change in the way that Europe handles the process of welcoming foreign travellers. Nevertheless, the method of getting registered is easy to do at home and will only take a few minutes to complete. Bader garners 15,251 votes in a hotly contested by-election. Car has a 150cc motorcycle engine that is meant to reduce the consumption of fuel. Dede, who was running against eight other contestants, has garnered 4566 votes from 30 polling stations.