Beverley Spencer-Obatoyinbo, the managing director British American Tobacco Kenya plc (BAT Kenya), has resigned.
In a statement to investors on Monday, the cigarette maker said Ms Spencer will officially leave the company on December 31, 2020 following the end of her assignment.
"Beverley will continue in an advisory capacity for a period of time to ensure a smooth transition," the firm said in a statement.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
}



"During the last 4 years, Beverley has transformed the business from a portfolio, value and people perspective. She leaves a legacy of energising and inclusive leadership and has collaborated extensively with external stakeholders putting BAT Kenya on the manufacturing and top employer map."
BAT named Mr Crispin Achola, its former executive, as her replacement from January 1, 2021.
Mr Achola most recently worked for Kimberly-Clark Corporation where he held the position of General Manager – West, East and Central Africa (WECA) and Managing Director Nigeria.





Prior to this role, he worked for BAT from 1999 through to 2017, a period during which he held various senior roles within BAT Kenya and the Group including MD Mozambique, Cluster General Manager – Mozambique, Zambia, Zimbabwe and Malawi and MD Sudan.
"The wealth of experience and commercial acumen that Mr. Achola has gained from working across numerous jurisdictions in Africa will be of immense value to BAT Kenya," the firm's company secretary Kathryne Maundu said in a statement issued on behalf of the board. Over 90 percent of CEOs and chairs of boards of directors are men The ban follows intense lobbying by parents and anti-tobacco groups to ban Lyft. Detectives will review footage capturing events of September 21 at around 10am outside the KRA offices. A spot check by the Nation found patients lying helpless in beds with relatives preferring to transfer them to private hospitals The talks aim to reach consensus before referendum signatures are handed to IEBC.