Eight activation events will happen in Africa and America, while Asia, Middle East and North Africa (Mena) and Europe will have nine, 11 and 14 and 11 respectively.Currently, Real Sociedad, Atlético de Madrid and Real Madrid lead an unpredictable and thrilling La Liga with 26 points. Kenya’s capital, Nairobi will on Saturday host the La Liga “Kick Out 2020” campaign.
The event, which will take place at the strategic Kenya National Archives, is amongst the 50 activation Events that the Spanish top flight football league has organised in 30 countries around the world, to mark a remarkable holiday for their fans.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



Eight activation events will happen in Africa and America, while Asia, Middle East and North Africa (Mena) and Europe will have nine, 11 and 14 and 11 respectively.
For Kenyan football fans in Nairobi, they will be able to enjoy a 3D art illustration. The activation will also feature performance in streets and projections in emblematic buildings around the globe.
In a statement to newsrooms, La Liga's International Development delegate for Kenya, Uganda and Ethiopia Beatriz García said that the slogan “Kick Out 2020” is also aimed at honouring the five exciting matches to be played from December 20 to January 10.





They include the Saturday’s clash between Barcelona and Valencia at Camp Nou and the Wednesday’s potentially explosive clash between Real Madrid and Granada.
The key highlights will be the Basque Derby (Athletic de Bilbao – Real Sociedad), the Gran Derby (Real Betis – Sevilla FC), a Derby in the Community of Madrid (Atlético de Madrid – Getafe CF) and in the Valencian Community (Villareal CF – Levante UD).
Currently, Real Sociedad, Atlético de Madrid and Real Madrid lead an unpredictable and thrilling La Liga with 26 points. The event was cancelled after the judge arrived late. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i was among leaders who went to Lee Funeral Home to condole with the family. His family says he had difficulty breathing after his lungs collapsed.