Climate impacts on crop yields will lead to an additional 20 million children being malnourished by 2050. This would be catastrophic in Africa.During services, a few minutes could be set aside to educate the masses on how global warming is causing climate change. Never in the history of the earth has carbon dioxide levels risen so fast. The world over, climate change is being fuelled by human activities, such as excessive emissions of greenhouse gases since the start of the industrial revolution.
According to the World Food Program, extreme weather events like floods, droughts, forest fires, and tropical cyclones that are caused by climate change are threatening food security for millions of people.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
}



Climate impacts on crop yields will lead to an additional 20 million children being malnourished by 2050. This would be catastrophic in Africa.
Other effects of climate change include air pollution, extreme wild fires, hurricanes, destruction of island nations, extinction of plant and animal species and water scarcity. Consequently, apart from heightening conflicts, these effects lead to displacement of people.





Developing nations
While nations agree that a lot needs to be done to ensure the earth is habitable for current and future generations, there are some complications. 
Firstly, the scale of emissions is huge and the sheer magnitude of the changes required to mitigate or adapt successfully to climate change would lead to significant disruptions in the way the world works in terms of industrialisation and energy production. 
For example, we would need to do away with traditional sources of energy like fossil fuels and adopt clean energy, such as solar.  There is also the issue of who should pay for this changes, with primarily developing nations who have historically had a smaller carbon footprint, arguing that developed countries should bear the responsibility for cutting emissions.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-2");
});
}



While governments dither on their responses, the church can lead the way and inspire millions of followers to take action. After all, the Bible clearly states that we are the guardians of the world.
For a start, the church could educate the masses on how global warming is causing climate change, and how our children will have it rough if nothing is done. During services, a few minutes could be set aside for this purpose.
Once masses understand this, they could easily influence state policies. What happens on earth in 100 years will depend on the choices we make to-day. Detectives will review footage capturing events of September 21 at around 10am outside the KRA offices. A spot check by the Nation found patients lying helpless in beds with relatives preferring to transfer them to private hospitals The talks aim to reach consensus before referendum signatures are handed to IEBC.