Wacu said no wild card should be awarded and players should merit their selection."I have participated in all events ranging from Africa Games, African Cup of Nations, World Championship, World Grand Prix,and World Cup and the only appearance missing is the Olympics and I'm excited about it. I want to be at my best when the time comes and that can only be achieved with proper training and personal discipline, " said Wacu After guiding her Seychelles side, Anse Royale (ARSU), to win the league title during four clubs competition playoffs over the weekend, flamboyant national team setter Jane Wacu has her work cut out ahead of next year's Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan.
ARSU came from a set down to win against Cascade 3-1(23-25, 25-11,25-18,25-15) in the final match of the round robin event. ARSU had won against City Ladies and Mt Fleri in other matches.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



Wacu said her focus now was to make it to the Tokyo-bound team.
"It is one thing to make it to the provisional squad and another thing to make the final cut. I have waited for so long to grace the Olympics and now that the chance is here, I want to grab it with both hands.
I'm glad my team down here have won the title and that gives me the will power to work extra hard ahead of next season scheduled for next month " said the former Tetu Secondary School player.





The Kenya Prisons player will however jostle for two slots up for grabs in the setter's position against Emmaculate Nekesa (KCB), Esther Mutinda (Kenya Pipeline), and Joy Lusenaka (Kenya Prisons).
Wacu said no wild card should be awarded and players should merit their selection.
"I have participated in all events ranging from Africa Games, African Cup of Nations, World Championship, World Grand Prix,and World Cup and the only appearance missing is the Olympics and I'm excited about it. I want to be at my best when the time comes and that can only be achieved with proper training and personal discipline, " said Wacu Mr Noordin Haji terms last week’s decision unfair and without any factual or legal bases. Ms Agnes Wangui said in court papers that the Matungu MP sired two children with her. The televangelist was charged with killing the woman by dangerous driving.