Algerian Ligue Professionelle 1 is one of the competitive leagues in Africa, but has been dominated by the rivalries between Belouizdad, USM Aligiers, Na Hussein Dey, CS Constatine and JS Kablie.Last season they were beaten by Pyramid of Egypt on 2-1 aggregate in the first round of the Caf Confederation Cup. CR Belouizdad lost 1-0 at home, before a 1-1 draw away. Algerian League champions CR Belouizdad, Gor Mahia opponents in the first round of the Caf Champions League, are no strangers to continental football.
They have represented Algeria in the Caf Champions League on four occasions, the Confederation Cup on four occasions and the now-defunct Cup Winners' Cup on two occasions.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
}



The club, which was formed on July 5, 1962 and is located in the capital, Algiers, has won the country 's top flight league seven times.
It has been a hard nut to crack at home for opponents who have played against them at their home stadium Stade 20 Août 1955.
Algerian Ligue Professionelle 1 is one of the competitive leagues in Africa, but has been dominated by the rivalries between Belouizdad, USM Aligiers, Na Hussein Dey, CS Constatine and JS Kablie.
Last season they were beaten by Pyramid of Egypt on 2-1 aggregate in the first round of the Caf Confederation Cup. CR Belouizdad lost 1-0 at home, before a 1-1 draw away.





Coached by 52-year-old former French professional footballer Franck Dumas, the team had in the preliminary stage eliminated As Coton Tchad of Chad 4-0 on aggregate winning both legs 2-0.
In the 2018 season, they lost 1-0 on aggregate to ASEC Mimosas of Ivory Coast in the first round of the Caf Confederation Cup. The Ivorians won at home after a barren draw in Algeria.
The team had earlier knocked out reigning Zambia Premier League champions 3-1 on aggregate. They beat Nkana 3-0 at home and lost 1-0 in Zambia.
The team qualified for the Caf Champions league in 2001 and 2003 where it was eliminated in the group stage and first round respectively.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-2");
});
}



It also participated in the Caf Confederation Cup in 2004 and 2010 but it didn't get past the group stage. Gor face Algerian champions CR Belouizdad for a place in group stages. The player joined Ingwe in January from Wazito. Detectives will review footage capturing events of September 21 at around 10am outside the KRA offices. A spot check by the Nation found patients lying helpless in beds with relatives preferring to transfer them to private hospitals The talks aim to reach consensus before referendum signatures are handed to IEBC.