The lorry involved in the accident was transporting sand from Kakamega to Mumias.Mumias Traffic Commander appeals to motorists and passengers to ensure they always buckle up. A lorry driver died on Wednesday evening after his vehicle collided with a truck along the Kakamega-Mumias road.
The people in truck sustained injuries during the accident that happened near Makunga market.
The driver who died in the accident has been identified as Mr Oscar Barabara Mang’ala.
His body was trapped in the wreckage for hours before police used axes to cut loose the twisted metal.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



Witnesses said the accident was caused by the lorry's front tyre which burst. The lorry was transporting sand from Kakamega to Mumias.
A witness, Mr Ambrose Chitechi, said the lorry veered off the road and collided with an oncoming truck.
Mumias Traffic Commander, Agnes Habbat, said the driver of the lorry lost control of the vehicle which rammed the truck after the tyre burst.
The driver of the other lorry and a passenger survived the crash and were treated at Makunga Hospital and later discharged.





The wreckage of the two vehicles were towed to Mumias Police Station. 
Ms Habbat asked motorists and passengers to ensure they put on seat belts which minimise chances of being injured or killed during an accident.
“We asking motorists to ensure they buckle up. The law requires that every person in a vehicle, regardless of the seating position, should always fasten seat belt. Failing to do so remains the leading cause of death in motor vehicle," she said.
She asked motorists to ensure their vehicle are in good condition.
 “If the lorry was in good condition, we could have avoided the fatality,” she said. Court attaches businessman's property to pay Sh21milllion in compensation to rad accident victim 60 people were killed due to drink driving between October 2 and 4. He allegedly received a sh200,000 bribe to approve the opening of a fuel station in Oyugis. Kabila had succeeded in forming an army with many generals said to still be loyal to him. This is the first time Uhuru is meeting Abiy since Addis Ababa launched a crackdown on TPLF.