Leading gaming company Mozzart Bet Kenya has officially been unveiled as the new sponsor of Football Kenya Federation Premier League side Kakamega Homeboyz. The ceremony was held in Kakamega on December 29, 2020.
The sponsorship, a first for the club as it celebrates its 10th anniversary, is for the 2020/21 season and is worth Ksh20 million. The event was attended by Kakamega County Executive Committee Member for Sports Kassim Were, Mozzart Bet Kenya Country Manager Sasa Krneta, AFC Leopards Chairman Dan Shikanda, veteran sports administrator and journalist Elyna Shiveka, and Kakamega Homeboyz Chairman Cleophas Shimanyula, among other dignitaries. 
“We welcome Mozzart Bet to Kakamega County, the home of football. We want to sincerely thank you as an organisation for supporting our team Homeboyz, and we are also very happy to see Mozzart Bet doing other CSR activities such as sinking boreholes and donating crucial medical equipment to hospitals around the country,” said Mr Were.
“As a county, we have invested over Ksh4 billion in renovating Bukhungu Stadium. The onus is now on Kakamega Homeboyz to ensure international football is played in the facility. With the sponsorship from Mozzart Bet and the support from the County Government, the team should now perform better,” he added.





Club CEO Bernard Shitiabayi lauded Mozzart Bet for partnering with the club, saying: “This is a historic moment for the club and we are very happy and grateful to partner with Mozzart Bet for the 2020/21 season. Our performance last season and the previous years has proved that we are a big club and the giants of Western Kenya. We have shown that we can challenge for the title.”
He added: “With this great sponsorship from Mozzart Bet Kenya, we can proudly say that we are now ready to conquer Kenya and the target is to win the league and play continental matches in the near future.”





Unveiling the new jersey with Kakamega County Executive Committee Member for Sports, Mr Kassim Were.


Mozzart Bet Kenya Country Manager, Krneta, said the company was happy to partner with the club and was eager to continue supporting other projects within the country.
“This is a good club with potential to dominate the top league. It is our hope that this partnership will propel the team to greater heights,” he said.





He continued: “Mozzart has the interests of Kenyan communities at heart and therefore it was highly important for us to find a club that represented our values as an organization. I know we have the right partners in Kakamega Homeboyz. To the people of Kakamega and Western Kenya, this is the time to rally behind the team and support them wholeheartedly as the success of Kakamega Homeboyz is your success. This is your team and we are here to support you in achieving your goals.”





Kakamega Homeboyz coach Nicholas Muyoti confirmed that the team was ready for the title. “We are very happy with this partnership as the technical bench, and the playing unit has also promised to work hard. Thank you so much Mozzart Bet. The journalists were covering an earlier incident where Bobi Wine and his bodyguard were arrested by police. Before his disappearance and death, Kipyegon Kenei was to record a statement at the DCI headquarters. Education CS says the government has done everything possible to facilitate the resumption of learning in schools.