Leading gaming company Mozzart Bet on December 23 and 24, 2020, donated vital medical equipment to Kayole 1 Health Centre and Kayole 2 Sub-County Hospital, each receiving items worth Ksh1.5 million. Both facilities are located in the populous Eastlands area of Nairobi.
The donations were part of Mozzart Bet’s ongoing corporate social investment named, ‘Supporting Our Healthcare Facilities’. The initiative is driven at empowering healthcare facilities around the country with necessary medical equipment.
Earlier on December 21, the bookmaker had gifted Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospital, also located in Eastlands, Nairobi, with medical equipment worth Ksh3 million. These included an incubator, six 15-inch patient monitors, bedside lockers, and patient beds complete with Macintosh mattresses.





Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospital Acting Medical Superintendent,  Dr Essam Said Ahmed, speaks after receiving medical equipment from Mozzart Bet.


The hospital’s Acting Medical Superintendent Dr Essam Said Ahmed, said: “We are very glad to get these equipment as they will help us get better as a fully functioning 24/7 hospital. We thank Mozzart and hope more organisations and companies can do the same as many hospitals around the country are underequipped.”
He added: “Strengthening the healthcare system in Kenya is very important. I am happy that Mozzart took up this initiative. On behalf of Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospital, I want to thank them for this kind gesture.”





Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospital Staff and Mozzart team with the Dummy Cheque representing the sum of the donation.


At Kayole 1 Health Centre on December 23, Mozzart Bet donated incubators, patient monitors, oxygen concentrators, bedside lockers, and patient beds complete with Macintosh mattresses.
Mrs Erica Ndege, who is in charge of the facility, thanked Mozzart for the kind gesture. “These will go a long way in ensuring we offer quality service, especially in our maternity wing, which was started three years ago and is now doing about 200 deliveries in a month. We are very grateful,” she said.
Mozzart’s representative, Mr Rodney Rono, reiterated the company’s commitment to supporting Kenyans, especially during these hard times.
“We are very delighted to share with you our love and appreciation for the Kenyan people. A healthy nation is a wealthy nation and therefore we are very keen on empowering hospitals even at the grassroots level, in order to reach the ordinary citizens, who work so hard, day in, day out,” he said.





Mozzart Rodney Rono


“We hope our donations today make a change and impact the lives of the people of Kayole, and on behalf of Mozzart, I would like to assure Kenyans that we are here to support you especially during this difficult period,” he added.
Kayole 2 Sub-County Hospital received incubators, patient monitors, oxygen concentrators, bedside lockers, foetal scanning machines, foetal Doppler equipment, digital baby and adult weighing scales, and patient beds complete with Macintosh mattresses.
Dr Ruth Kiota, who is in charge of the hospital, said: “We are so grateful to Mozzart for their donation. We do about 300 deliveries per month and we used to discharge our mothers early to create room for others, but with these donations, we will now take better care our mothers.”
She added: “Generally, our service delivery will greatly improve.”
Mozzart Kenya Country Manager Sasa Krneta said: “We hope the equipment will improve the situation in this facility and enhance service delivery to the people of Kayole.”
Mozzart Bet has recently made donation worth Ksh10 million, made up of personal protective gear to frontline professionals and medical equipment to a number of other healthcare facilities.
The beneficiaries include Ngara Health Centre, Mathare North Health Centre, Kahawa West Health Centre and Pumwani Maternity Hospital in Nairobi, and Chemolingot Sub-County Hospital in Tiaty. The health centres and Chemolgit Sub-County Hospital each received equipment worth Ksh1.5 million, while Pumwani maternity got goods worth Ksh3 million.
Mozzart Bet intends to spread the donations to other regions in the coming days, according to Marketing Manager Frank Ochieng.
“We are here to support Kenyan communities in the long term,” he stressed.
Krneta reiterated the same, saying the company will continue supporting Kenyans across different sectors. The bridge will be officially opened on January 1, 2021. Many did not travel at all for fear of the invisible enemy that has tormented the world for most of this year. The coronavirus pandemic has disrupted the very essence of Christian celebrations this festive season.