A number of those cheaper refurbished ploughs and harrows have discs made from low quality steel thus have a short working life.A number of farmers have gone for them only to turn to genuine dealers to express their disappointment.Check for the equipment serial number and QR code that can be scanned by a smartphone to verify if it is a genuine product.Always go for genuine machinery for a good farm experience. A growing number of farmers already own a tractor and a plough, and want to buy other implements to fully mechanise their farms to improve productivity.
Inevitably, price is usually one of the major factors farmers consider when purchasing implements. Thus, some farmers go for refurbished ploughs and harrows in bid to save.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



However, cheap can turn out to be expensive. A number of those cheaper refurbished ploughs and harrows have discs made from low quality steel thus have a short working life.
Then there is the problem of imitation, with the equipment carrying labels of well-known brands. A number of farmers have gone for them only to turn to genuine dealers to express their disappointment.
Due diligence
While shopping for farm machinery, do due diligence to ensure you don’t end up with fake equipment.





Check for the equipment serial number and QR code that can be scanned by a smartphone to verify if it is a genuine product.
Imitation equipment has no spares and service backing and do not come with a warranty. Again, its sellers will not offer after sale services.
Genuine dealers will send technicians to the farmer after the equipment is bought to ensure it serves them well. Always go for genuine machinery for good farm experience. Cholo Abdi Abdullah, 30, is facing six counts of terrorism-related offenses arising from his activities as an operative of Al-Shabaab. By Monday evening, the renewable energy expert was still fighting to stay in office. Sonko will need 24 elected senators to survive his removal from office.