PPRA Ag Director General Ms Pauline Opiyo explains new actions to deter breach of public procurement law
Q. Public procurement is a key plank in service delivery. As a regulator, could you briefly highlight your mandate in ensuring that taxpayers get value for money during the buying of goods and services?
A.  Broadly put, the mandate of the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA) is to regulate the public procurement and asset disposal system through monitoring and enforcement for socio-economic development in Kenya. To ensure taxpayers get value for money, PPRA conducts Contract Audits (under Section 43 of the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act) and Procurement Investigations (under Section 36 of the Act). PPRA also hosts and provides administrative services to the Public Procurement Administrative Review Board (PPARB), which resolves tendering disputes. The three tenets of the mandate ensure that there is fairness, competition, transparency and accountability and in essence value for money.
Q. The regulations have now been published and are in use. Kindly explain the major tenets and any other issue that procuring entities and the general public should know about.
A. The regulations help to operationalise the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act by prescribing the elements that were not expounded in the Act. The regulations also give more clarity regarding the autonomy of procuring entities as they operate within the law. In the regulations, we also have harmonisation and standardisation of the rules and procedures in procurement.
The basic tenets of the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Regulations 2020 include the following:
Operationalise provisions of the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act 2015.Assert full autonomy of entities to act within the law.Harmonise and standardise application of rules and procedures in public procurement and asset disposal system, including outlining various formats.Standardise public procurement and asset disposal management system, including management of the procurement function at both levels of government.Set out additional functions of the regulatory bodies – The National Treasury, PPRA and PPARB.Guide decision-making within institutions and segregated authority in handling of procurement activities.Outline the role of procurement professionals.Outline the debarment procedures for errant bidders.
We would like the procuring entities and other stakeholders to note that:
The regulations issued under the repealed Public Procurement and Disposal Act 2005 are no longer in use.The Authority is finalising on the new standard tender documents and formats to be issued in January 2021.The Authority and in particular the Public Procurement Regulatory Board, is ready to initiate debarment against errant bidders as the regulations has set out the relevant/applicable debarment procedures.The regulations have outlined various self-declaration forms for use by tenderers in their bidding for government contracts.
Q. How has PPRA worked with other agencies to ensure that corruption cases relating to public procurement are efficiently and effectively handled?
A. PPRA works very closely with the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC), Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI), and the Office of the Director of Public Prosecution (ODPP), in the investigation and prosecution of public procurement fraud and corruption cases. The Authority provides professional opinion and other information that the other agencies use as evidence in the cases. Subsequently, officers of the Authority appear in court as prosecution witnesses. Plans are underway to make the collaborations more structured through memoranda of understanding (MoUs) to avoid duplication of efforts, especially in audits and investigations.
Other Agencies that PPRA works with are the offices of the Attorney General and the Auditor General.
Q. The Big Four agenda sets the stage for heightened public procurement. So far, what is your assessment in terms of ensuring that the goods and services procured contribute to the attainment of the socio-economic development goals under the agenda?
A. In expectation of heightened procurement under the Big Four Agenda, the Authority conducted procurement assessments in organisations that are at the forefront of implementing flagship projects under the Big Four Agenda. This was to ensure that any gaps in their procurement systems that could affect the purchase of goods and services for attainment of socio-economic development goals under the agenda were addressed early enough. We have also been providing advisory services and technical support to the public entities implementing the Big Four Agenda flagship projects whenever they face challenges with regard to procurement under such projects. So far, we have not had major procurement issues, hence we are confident that the flagship projects are on course. PPRA will be conducting contract/performance audits in such projects to ensure there is value for money.
Q. Part of your key mandate is to ensure that State agencies, ministries and parastatals follow procurement laws and regulations. However, these government institutions flout these laws and regulations, paving the way for scandals that cost taxpayers huge sums of money. What remedial measures – proactive and reactive – do you take to address the challenges?
A. To deter the wanton breach of the law, PPRA has decided to publish compliance reports of public entities and the list of procuring entities that comply or do not comply with the reporting requirements under the public procurement law. This name and shame strategy will motivate public entities to comply. PPRA also intends to look at other ways of promoting compliance.
In reaction to procurement scandals, PPRA conducts investigations and shares the reports with EACC, DCI, ODPP and Office of the Attorney General, for further action.
Q. One of your core values is being a learning organisation that embraces creativity and innovation in service delivery. Outline some of the key innovations you have implemented to boost efficiency in public procurement and service delivery.
A. We developed a mobile phone application for accessing the Pubic Procurement and Asset Disposal Act 2015. We also developed the Public Procurement Information Portal (PPIP), which allows stakeholders to access public procurement information.
We are working closely with the National Treasury to put in place a new e-procurement system that will enhance efficiency and transparency in public procurement.
*******
The Code of Ethics for Persons Participating in Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Activities in Kenya, and the applicable schedule, are available on http://ppra.go.ke/code-of-ethics/ The former city governor is seeking to stop the IEBC from conducting Nairobi gubernatorial by-election. The affected routes are Ruiru, Embakasi, Kikuyu and Syokimau. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe says that 286 patients have recovered
from the virus