The Amsterdam-born Promes, known for his speed and technical style of playing, joined Ajax last year from Sevilla FC in a 15 million-euro transfer.Before that he played for Spartak in Moscow, where he was named Footballer of the Year in Russia in 2017.He played his first match in Dutch national colours in March 2014 against France. The Hague
Dutch international footballer Quincy Promes has been arrested in connection with a stabbing at a family gathering earlier this year, a Dutch news report said Sunday.
The 28-year-old Ajax forward Promes "is suspected of assault resulting in serious physical injury," popular daily tabloid De Telegraaf said.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



The incident happened at a family party at a shed in the scenic town of Abcoude, just outside Amsterdam in late July, the newspaper said.
"A relative was seriously injured and suffered, among other things, very serious knee injuries," in the incident, the newspaper said.
Promes allegedly got into a scuffle after an argument with the relative and other family members immediately intervened, the paper said.
The relative laid charges a month ago, it added.
Amsterdam police spokesman Jelmer Geerds told AFP a "28-year-old man has been arrested" but declined to give further details.





He said the suspect was in custody and a decision whether he would be released on bail would be taken later on Sunday.
Ajax could not immediately be reached for comment, but the NOS public broadcaster said the club confirmed that Promes was not at training on Sunday.
The Amsterdam-born Promes, known for his speed and technical style of playing, joined Ajax last year from Sevilla FC in a 15 million-euro transfer.
Before that he played for Spartak in Moscow, where he was named Footballer of the Year in Russia in 2017.He played his first match in Dutch national colours in March 2014 against France. The 'keeper was credited with an own-goal for his troubles. Victory lifts Everton up to seventh and within just one point of the top four. Health ministry announces 366 new infections after testing 4,205 samples, raising Kenya's number of declared infections to 91,892. Somaliland has run its affairs independent of Somalia since 1991. The setting up of phantom jackpots and how a well-oiled gambling mafia almost took over the country.