Kajo passed away on Monday morning while receiving treatment at Sayidna Fatma Hospital in MombasaKajo, 78, was part of the Feisal FC squad which is the only team from the Coast to have ever won the Kenya Premier League title in 1965His last prayers will be held at TSS mosque before his burial at Tangana Muslim Cemetery in Ganjoni area on Monday afternoon Former Feisal FC and Harambee Stars striker, Ali Kajo has died. 
Kajo passed away on Monday morning while receiving treatment at Sayidna Fatma Hospital in Mombasa.
Kajo, 78, was part of the Feisal FC squad which is the only team from the Coast to have ever won the Kenya Premier League title in 1965.
He is best remembered for scoring the last goal for pre-independence Kenya and netting the first goal for the national team post-independence. 



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



His last prayers were held at TSS mosque before his burial at Ganjoni Muslim Cemetery in Ganjoni area on Monday afternoon.





Mourners carry the remains of former Feisal FC and Harambee Stars striker, Ali Kajo, who died on December 28, 2020 while receiving treatment at Sayidna Fatma Hospital in Mombasa.
Photo credit: Abdulrahman Sheriff | Nation Media Group


Messages of condolences have been received from fans in various parts of Coast region expressing their sorrow over his death.
Most of the fans blamed Coast leaders, Mombasa County and national government for failing to ensure Kajo lived a decent life despite dedicating his youthful years to the national team which he helped win many regional titles. 





Former Feisal FC manager Abdullahi Bashasha urged Mombasa County government to name one of the city's streets after Kajo as a way of honouring him.
"Ali Kajo deserves to be honoured for the way he served this nation. I would recommend one of the streets of Mombasa be named after him in recognition of his contribution to Mombasa, Coast and Kenya football,” said Bashasha.
He is survived by a widow, 12 children and several grandchildren.  Jubilee and ODM clear prospective candidates to contest party primaries for Nairobi gubernatorial by-elections. What apparently infuriated the ANC boss was what appeared to be an ultimatum for him and Mr Wetang'ula. Exiled lawyer gets direct nomination from the Thirdway Alliance Kenya party to run in the forthcoming mini-poll.