As part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative dubbed “Supporting Our Healthcare Facilities”, Mozzart Bet has donated medical equipment worth Ksh3 million to the Pumwani Maternity Hospital.
Mozzart is targeting to support key healthcare facilities in Nairobi and in different counties in the midst of the Corona virus pandemic. Previously, the company had made a donation of Ksh10,000,000 worth of personal protective equipment (PPE) to frontline professionals.
“In our new programme of donating Intensive Care Unit (ICU) equipment to hospitals, we have so far donated to the Ngara Health Centre (Nairobi) and Chemolingot Sub-County Hospital in Tiaty. In Nairobi, we have also supported Mathare North Health Centre, Kahawa West Health Centre and now Pumwani. Kindly accept our small Christmas donation, as we continue to partner in this journey during these tough times,” said Mr Sasa Krneta, Mozzart Bet Country Manager.





ICU equipment.


The items donated to Pumwani Maternity Hospital included incubators, patient monitors, oxygen concentrators, bedside lockers, and patient beds complete with Macintosh mattresses. Those donated to Mathare North Health Centre, Kahawa West Health Centre, Ngara Health Centre and Chemolingot Health Centre were in the range of Ksh1.5 million.





Patient crank beds, bedside lockers, baby incubators, patient monitors with movable stands, and oxygen concentrators, all from Mozzart Bet to Pumwani Maternity Hospital.


“Mozzart has really helped us today and we hope it is the beginning of a partnership journey that will support other departments like the out-patient services,” said Dr Beth Maina, Deputy Medical Superintendent and Head of Clinical Services at Pumwani Maternity Hospital.
The event was held at the Pumwani grounds, and was attended by the Nairobi Metropolitan Services Director of Health, Dr Josphine Mbae; Medical Superintendent, Pumwani Maternity, Dr John Murima; Mozzart Bet Country Manager Mr Sasa Krneta; and Mr Okoth Ochieng’, Mozzart Bet Marketing Manager, among other dignitaries.





The full range of ICU equipment donated to Pumwani Maternity Hospital by Mozzart Bet. ODM leader claims IEBC is inflating referendum budget, but Chebukati says he is guided by facts. He was rather brash — unsophisticated, some say — and he knew but offered no apologies Cholo Abdi Abdullah's indictment blows open the terror group's quest for international attention.