Revisiting 2020, the President said the year proved an immense test for all Kenyans.He assured parents that the government will do everything in its power to ensure the health and safety of learners. President Uhuru Kenyatta has reiterated that Kenya is staring at a constitutional moment, noting that the first amendment to the 2010 constitution is a bold path that seeks to lay the foundation for a more just, more inclusive, more equitable and more prosperous Kenya. 
In his new year’s message to the country, the President warned that the country cannot experience the ‘newness’ of a new year without a renewal of minds noting that Kenyans cannot seize the opportunities and limitless possibilities of 2021, if they are stuck in the mind-set of 2020 and previous years.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



In his new year address to the nation, the President said the amendments seek to make right the national politics by eliminating what he described as the “winner-takes-all” politics and replacing it with “we all win”.
Regime change





“You all know that in a constitutional moment, the soul of the nation is constantly in turmoil over elections and the perpetual quest for regime change,” the President said in his 13 minute address to the nation last night.
Revisiting 2020, the President said the year proved an immense test for all Kenyans. He assured parents that the government will do everything in its power to ensure the health and safety of learners, saying that 2021 will provide an opportunity to rebuild the country.
He thanked medics, healthcare workers, the security forces for their exemplary courage and sacrifice during the continued COVID-19 pandemic, saying that each and every one of them is a hero in our eyes of the public.
“I am certain that we have the courage to do what we must, what is necessary; at the end of the year we will look back and remark at how 2021 was a momentous year in our nation’s history.” The national government has not hidden its intent to control the capital city. The development is a big plus to the war against doping among Kenyan athletes. He paraded the newly elected Msambweni MP Feisal Bader as the “firstborn” of the so called Hustler's Movement. Ever since Abiy Ahmed came to power, the Tigray regional government has been at odds with the central government.