Wendy Musira is a single mother of two boys aged eight and two years. She is the fourth born in a family of four girls and three boys. Her father is a policeman, while her mother is a greengrocer.
Wendy was working as an untrained teacher in Kariobangi South, Nairobi, when she heard about the Young Africa Works Project.
The project is a partnership between Mastercard Foundation and KCB Foundation. It aims to create 1.5 million jobs for the youth in agriculture, manufacturing, construction and in the creative arts within five years. This will be done through facilitating the youths to establish 86,000 micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). Of these, 28,000 will be greenhouses, with the rest being enterprises in manufacturing, construction and the creative arts. A total of 114,000 beneficiaries will own these start-ups.
When Wendy heard about the project from a friend, she did not hesitate.
“I immediately responded and joined Arcskills for training in plumbing,” she says. Arcskills is the anchor partner in charge of construction of the greenhouses. The other anchor partners are Gearbox, who manufacture the greenhouse parts and Miramar International College, that trains beneficiaries in hydroponic farming.
Wendy’s training was conducted at CITC Pumwani under full sponsorship of the Young Africa Works Project. Why plumbing? One might wonder. To which Wendy responds: “I found the plumbing job interesting. You can do it anywhere and you can keep it for life.”
After three months of intensive training and mentoring in plumbing, Wendy was deployed to the Arcskills site at Ngong-Kibiko to assist in constructing 100 hydroponic greenhouses for the project. Her plumbing training came in handy because hydroponic farming relies on feeding crops through an intricate network of pipes, which distribute water and nutrients from a central point to every plant in the greenhouse.
“Plumbing in the greenhouse is critical because it is the way the crops get their food and water. If you get it wrong, the greenhouse will not perform,” Wendy explains.
This makes her pay extra attention to her work, while she also gets involved in other roles at the site, such as supporting the masons and doing general duties.
Wendy has also acquired skills in steel fixing and is happy to lend her hand in this aspect of the work at the site.
Why did she exchange teaching for plumbing? “I was curious to explore another way of earning a living. The plumbing is already paying well, and I can do plumbing in my own time to make an extra coin,” she says. Wendy had been teaching for three years before she opted to join the programme.
The future for Wendy involves setting up a plumbing business, something she already does on the side. “I offer plumbing services on weekends,” she points out, giving the example of a kitchen sink she fixed for a client at a fee of Ksh1,500. “I really enjoyed that job and I followed up later to make sure the problem had not recurred,” she says.
The Young Africa Works Project provides ladies with the amazing chance to take up at least 70 percent of the 114,000 beneficiary opportunities in the five-year initiative. This is one of the opportunities Wendy has taken up with such enthusiasm, and which has given her an opening into the world of plumbing and financial independence. He died while undergoing treatment at a Nairobi hospital where he had been hospitalised. Leaders at summit largely disagree with severance of diplomatic ties. According to bilateral deal, the soldiers will “not be constrained” by UN rules of engagement.