By James Kahonge
For many Kenyans, buying a home is the ultimate dream. But there’s no better way to strike this all-important milestone than owning a spacious, functional home in a serene, well-lit neighbourhood that is served by a reliable road and rail network.
This is what real estate developer Kitengela Plains is offering to home buyers: comfort at affordable rates.  
The developer has put up 48 units of four-bedroom all en suite villas complete with a DSQ in Kitengela, Kajiado County.
Phase One of the project has 17 house units. They are all complete and ready for occupation. Phase Two, consisting of 31 units, is substantially complete and will be ready for occupation by the first quarter in 2021, according to Kitengela Plains Director Sahib Sethi.
The units, measuring 225 square metres each, are currently selling at Ksh9.8 million, which is significantly lower than what competitors are offering relative to the plinth area.
Kitengela Plains offers elegant finishes and the features are as good as they come. “Ours are spacious and functional homes. We apply the latest technologies and methodologies to achieve the highest quality. It is value for our clients’ money.”
But who are buying this type of homes?
Sethi says middle-income professionals in Nairobi with families are their key target segment.
“If you are buying your first home, we are offering you affordable luxury,” he says. “We have buyers from all backgrounds – from the Kenyan community to African-Asians and Europeans, young professionals and businesspeople,” he says.
With Kenya’s bulging middle-class, more people want to move away from the crowded city to quieter neighbourhoods that bring the added advantage of serene outdoors with fresh air.
Kitengela Plains, a fully Kenyan-owned development, is a subsidiary Landmark Holdings Ltd, a multi-faceted construction group. All manpower and materials used in the project is sourced locally from Kenyan manufacturers and traders.
“Being Kenyan, we serve Kenyans and support Kenyan businesses without cutting corners,” Sethi notes.
As the Nairobi Metropolis opens up through more bypasses, link roads, and rail networks, access to nearby towns such as Kitengela has greatly improved.
“Currently, it takes about 45 minutes from Nairobi to Kitengela. When the Expressway is completed, this time will be halved. The city has been brought ever closer. People aren’t afraid to move to Kitengela anymore.”
Ten years ago, the property market in Kenya was seller-driven. Then developers set the standards and prices. The options were also fewer. Today, tables have turned. Buyers now call the shots.
“Buyers demand good quality lighting, hardwood doors and modern kitchens and wardrobes. Developers have been put to task. They have to be unique to provide more value to clients,” Sethi says.
From Nairobi to Kitengela, Athi River and other neighbourhoods, potential homeowners have more options to choose from today. Consequently, the property market has become more price-sensitive than before.
“You have to ask yourself what extra amenities the customer is getting within your price points. Do they want fancy, expensive façades and lavish roofs? Most people are looking for functional homes that accommodate their families and guests and outside spaces where children can play,” Sethi explains.
He adds: “Our pricing has opened up a whole new market with more potential buyers accommodated within the bracket.”
The Covid-19 pandemic has affected the real estate market. Sale negotiations are taking longer now. Buyers are jittery and are holding on to money, owing to the uncertainty of their job security and the future of businesses.
“We’ve had to offer payment plans on a case-to-case basis to ease cash constrains (on the part of buyers),” says Sethi. He adds that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Kenyan homeowners are now more interested in functionality and comfort.
“Many people today are working from home. Does the development support telecommuting? Is there internet connectivity and the infrastructure to facilitate this? At Kitengela Plains, we have provided the estate with high speed Wi-Fi. The homes have a lot of natural light, which fully supports working from home.





Some of the completed houses by Kitengela Plains.


On market recovery timelines, he says the property market is picking up slowly after months of inactivity. “The government’s affordable housing project is driving some activity in the market and over the next one year, we’ll see an upside.”
Sethi foresees an upward price review for units in Phase Two to about Ksh10.8 million. This is as a result of increased infrastructure and recovery of the real estate market.
Sethi recommends buying into Kitengela Plains now before the market recovers and prices start to increase.  “Like other industries, the property market is already finding ways to work around the pandemic. Private developments have restarted construction works after a break. Kenyans are persistent and will keep pushing hard,” he says.
For many years, Kitengela has been considered exclusive and an escape from the stir of the city. Is this exclusivity under threat? And for how long can Kitengela continue to pride itself for serenity?
“Unlike Athi River and Syokimau, for instance, which are characterised by commercial and industrial structures, Kitengela is more residential in its organisation. In comparison terms, it’s the Karen of Nairobi,” Sethi explains. “Developments are much bigger and houses are more premium. Here, developers have created a standard of housing and development is fairly controlled. I’m confident that it will remain this way.”
Sethi says buyers of units in Phase Two can pay a deposit and start paying in instalments. For those intending to move in by December 2021, there are payment plans to suit their needs.
To allow buyers more time to pay, Kitengela Plains is offering mortgage plans with local banks such as Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) and DTB.  
The property sales are managed by Pam Golding Properties, a reputed international sales and letting agent. For more information visit https://www.pamgolding.co.za/property-development/kitengela/kitengela-plains or  contact Mr Leonard Onyancha on +254710783955 or email on Leonard.onyancha@pamgolding.co.ke. Detectives will review footage capturing events of September 21 at around 10am outside the KRA offices. A spot check by the Nation found patients lying helpless in beds with relatives preferring to transfer them to private hospitals The talks aim to reach consensus before referendum signatures are handed to IEBC.