Leopards chairman Dan Shikanda added: "Western Kenya has been the ideal scouting ground for players down the years and we are coming up with a program to tap in the best from this region. Our coaches will have a look at some of the players  in this tournament and advice us."The three-month tournament was organized and funded by Phil Etale, a seasoned journalist and Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) Communications Director. He aims to nurture through talents from the region and offer them opportunities at top-flight and second-tier clubs. AFC Leopards and Zetech Univesity have undertaken to each recruit atleast two promising players from the just-concluded Papa Etale Cup football tournament in Kakamega County.
The 48-team annual end of season football tournament drew to a close on Saturday with Cyrus Lumwachi scoring the lone-goal to aid Milimani FC beat Wembe Alliance in a pulsating finale at St Paul's Lugari High School.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



Lugari Progressive also beat Mumboa FC by three unanswered goals to lift the inaugural women's title.Sheila Masitsa stood out in this game, scoring once in each half to seal the deal.
"We have identified James Ndege, Paul Imbali, Ibrahim Wanyonyi, and Hillary Mulakushi to attend trials at our institution. These players had a mean-grade of C- in their Kenya Certificate of Secondary School (KCSE) exams and we will offer scholarships to at least two of them," said Moses Maina,  Zetech's Director Corporate Affairs and Communications.





Leopards chairman Dan Shikanda added: "Western Kenya has been the ideal scouting ground for players down the years and we are coming up with a program to tap in the best from this region. Our coaches will have a look at some of the players  in this tournament and advice us."
The three-month tournament was organized and funded by Phil Etale, a seasoned journalist and Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) Communications Director. He aims to nurture through talents from the region and offer them opportunities at top-flight and second-tier clubs. The journalists were covering an earlier incident where Bobi Wine and his bodyguard were arrested by police. Before his disappearance and death, Kipyegon Kenei was to record a statement at the DCI headquarters. Education CS says the government has done everything possible to facilitate the resumption of learning in schools.