By Evans Ongwae
Come next year, most of Presi­dent Uhuru Kenyatta’s action plan on the elimination of ma­laria in Africa by 2030 will start falling in place, and Kenya is gearing to provide the necessary leadership to other countries.
The Government targets to reduce malaria cases and deaths in Kenya by 75 per cent by 2023 as envisioned in the Kenya Malaria Strategy.
So far, Kenya has managed to reduce the number of malaria cases seen in hospitals from an annual average of six million to 4.6 million. The inci­dence of malaria has reduced from 121 per 1,000 population in 2015 to 97 per 1,000 population in 2019. The number of deaths has reduced from an estimated 30,000 to 20,000 annu­ally.
On October 31, President Kenyatta launched the “Zero Malaria Starts with Me” campaign to catalyse implemen­tation of his four-point anti-malaria agenda. He issued the agenda in his capacity as the Chairman of African Leaders Malaria Alliance (ALMA).
He said: “Significant gains have been made in the battle against malaria and progress needs to be accelerated. As we enter the decade to end malar­ia, I am committed to ensuring that we accelerate progress and end this ancient scourge. I call on the African community and especially the youth to be leaders in health and in the fight against malaria.”
President Kenyatta’s four-point agenda to guide African countries in their efforts to eliminate malaria en­tails, one, digitalisation and real time access to malaria data at country lev­el, to create a clear picture of the ma­laria situation so that response is quick and adequate.
The second agenda concerns pro­moting engagements with regional economic communities as the key pil­lars to implement AU malaria com­mitments.
Three, President Kenyatta is encour­aging the establishment of End Ma­laria Councils and Funds. These will boost multi-sectoral action and re­source mobilisation, and local manu­facture of malaria commodities.
Four, the President, as the ALMA chair, proposes the establishment of a “Youth Army” to create a broader so­cial movement to fight malaria, im­prove maternal, child and adolescent health, and enhance access to health care in Africa.
The Zero Malaria Starts with Me cam­paign links local and national action by including all members of society in the fight against malaria. It sparks grassroots movement by engaging po­litical leaders at all levels, mobilising resources and funding, and empow­ering communities to take ownership of malaria efforts and hold leaders ac­countable.
As part of the campaign, individu­als, families, communities, as well as political and business leaders have been urged to make a personal com­mitment to step up the fight against malaria.
For stories on what Kenya and other parts of Africa are specifically doing to kick out malaria, kindly click here to download the special report. Apart from the virtual courts, the Judiciary recently introduced the electronic filing system. President expected to give Jubilee government’s scorecard since he took power in 2013. The President is said to be planning a whirlwind tour of the country as soon as the Covid-19 restrictions end in January.