Elma Obiero and Julius Ngesa from Nakuru have landed at Kabarak University.Even though the government is yet to clear for the reopening of rugby with the sport being categorised as high risk, Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) has released tentative fixtures starting January 16.  Homeboyz forwards Joshua Chisanga, Emmanuel Mavala and Philip Ikambili and kicker Evin Asena have decamped to Kenya Harlequin for the new rugby season beginning January next year.
Quins, who have signed seven new players, have also raided Impala Saracens stable to pluck out fly half Xavier Kipng’etich, besides signing Isaac Wafula and Brian Oyando from Western Bulls and Administration of Police respectively.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
}



Impala Saracens have also lost centre Samuel Motari and fly half Kanyiri Kariuki to Nondescripts with their tight-head prop also decamping to Strathmore Leos.  
On the other hand, Impala Saracens have signed five new players including prop Nesta Okoth and utility back Ken Moseti from KCB Rugby. Also heading to the Sarries are Martin Juma from United States International University (USIU), Nakuru’s Teddy Ratemo and Albert Obura from Strathmore Leos.





Kabras Sugar have signed six players, two from Mean Machine and similar numbers from Western Bulls.
Winger Alfred Orega is back at Kabras Sugar from Mean Machine where he moves out with forward Aaron Adhanja.
Teddy Akala and Derrick Ashiundu have traded Western Bulls for Kabras Sugar where Kisumu’s Victor Oduor and Citam Kisumu’s Edwin Ochieng have found a new home.
Kabras Sugar too have lost two players, Washington Ombima and Teddy Omondi to Kisumu.
Nakuru have raided their neighbours, Menengai Oilers factory, wooing three players Gilbert Ochieng, Mike Mare and Rogers Audi, besides bringing Gideon Mbithi the Great Rift from Mwamba.
The Oilers have signed three players- Elvis Kolian (Shamas Rugby), Paul Buloa (Nakuru) and Neville Nyongesa (Kabarak University).



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-2");
});
}



Mwamba have courted Charles Kuka from USIU, while Kenya Cup champions KCB Rugby have so far signed only one player, Wilfred Waswa from Northern Suburbs.
“We can’t eye any major signing since nothing much has happened this season. You can’t go for someone that you have no clue what he has been doing,” said KCB Rugby chairman Xavier Makuba. “We shall stick with what we have in the new season and see how it goes.”
Elma Obiero and Julius Ngesa from Nakuru have landed at Kabarak University.
Even though the government is yet to clear for the reopening of rugby with the sport being categorised as high risk, Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) has released tentative fixtures starting January 16.  Detectives will review footage capturing events of September 21 at around 10am outside the KRA offices. A spot check by the Nation found patients lying helpless in beds with relatives preferring to transfer them to private hospitals The talks aim to reach consensus before referendum signatures are handed to IEBC.