The Health ministry Monday announced 163 new Covid-19 infections in Kenya, raising the number of declared infections since the first one in March to 92,055.
In a statement, Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe said the new patients were found after the testing of 2,283 samples in the last 24 hours, raising the number of samples analysed so far to 973,805.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



Ninety four of the new infections were recorded in Nairobi, which remains the virus epicentre, 15 in Kiambu, eight in Homa Bay, seven in Uasin Gishu, six in Nakuru and four in Machakos.
Murang'a, Kisumu and Trans Nzoia each reported three cases, Mombasa, Kajiado, Meru, Laikipia and Kakamega two each, and Isiolo, Makueni, Bungoma, Migori, Nyandarua, Tharaka Nithi, Kirinyaga, Embu, Narok and Vihiga one each.
Six more dead
CS Kagwe also announced six new deaths, raising the toll to 1,593, and 424 more recoveries, raising the number of recovered patients in the country to 73,452.





He said 378 of the recovered patients were treated at home and 46 at various hospitals.
As of Monday, the number of patients admitted in hospitals countrywide was 960 while the number of those under home-based isolation and care was 6,581.
Of those admitted, 49 were in intensive care units (ICU), 27 of them on ventilatory support, 20 on supplemental oxygen and two under observation.
Another 46 patients were on supplemental oxygen but in general wards (37) and high dependency units (nine). My ignorance and fear could have not only left me dead but endangered my wife and children. Low numbers of Kenyans with active health insurance cover identified as another threat to Universal Health Coverage. Mr Noordin Haji terms last week’s decision unfair and without any factual or legal bases. Ms Agnes Wangui said in court papers that the Matungu MP sired two children with her. The televangelist was charged with killing the woman by dangerous driving.