Mozzart Bet Kenya, which has operated in the country for three years as a sports betting firm, is now also offering support to communities. The company has recently provided the people of Imbo in Kothidha, Homa Bay County, with a life-saving Christmas gift.
“We are very proud to launch our first water project in this great county of Homa Bay. The people of Imbo are the first beneficiaries of our new socially responsible initiative, which we call, ‘Clean Drinking Water for Our Communities’. Through this water project, Mozzart aims to give back to the society by delivering clean water to the communities. We hope that this will make a difference here,” said Mr Frank Ochieng of Mozzart Bet.





Imbo chief delivering a thanksgiving speech after Mozzart Bet installed a water project in the area.


This year has been a challenging one to the world due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Since the pandemic hit Kenya, Mozzart Bet has invested Ksh10 million worth of medical equipment to help fight the new Corona virus in 10 hospitals across the country.
Healthcare facilities in Nakuru, Siaya, Kisii, Embu, Nyandarua, Baringo, Bomet, Kisumu, Kakamega and Kitui have all received donations, which included personal protective equipment for frontline professionals and other assorted medical items. The company hasn’t stopped there.
Mozzart Bet is now even more committed to giving back to the society. Through action dubbed “Supporting Our Health Care Facilities”, the company delivered Intensive Care Unit (ICU) equipment to needy hospitals, especially in the hard-to-reach areas. So far, the company has donated ICU beds, patient monitors, oxygen concentrators and other critical intensive medical equipment to the Ngara Health Centre, Nairobi, and to Chemolingot Sub-County Hospital in Tiaty, East Pokot.
New Jerseys for New Champions
Mozzart supports young talents in sports, mostly through the initiative named “New Jerseys for New Champions”. Under this programme, the company donates full sports kits to teams around the country. The Uganda Communications Commission says the channels were used to mobilise riots in November that resulted in many deaths. Residents report seeing SNA troops taking strategic positions along the border. Kenyan Uber drivers say their investments have gone down the drain.