By Kevin Rotich
KCB Group has been accredited by the Green Climate Fund (GCF) to access up to Sh25 billion to finance low-emission and climate-resilient projects in East Africa.
GCF, which was established under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, was initiated by 194 governments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in developing countries.
The Bank, which was accredited in the medium to large private sector category, will fund projects of ranging from Sh5 billion to Sh25 billion.
Treasury Cabinet Secretary (CS) Ukur Yatani said the approval reinforced Kenya as a leader in green finance.
“It is a key milestone that the bank is the first locally established lender and private entity to be accredited as the direct access in the medium category to receive up to ($250 million),” said Mr Yatani.
In 2017, KCB Bank Kenya was nominated by the National Treasury to participate in the GCF accreditation. Under the GCF programme, the National Treasury is the National Designated Authority (NDA) for accrediting entities in the country that apply for funding through GCF.
Mr Yatani adds that addressing climate change requires transformation of the economy by integrating climate change into development policies and actions across multiple sectors.
“This will lower greenhouse gas emissions, reduce our vulnerability to climate shocks, and deliver poverty reduction gains. Taking action to adapt to, and mitigate climate change is in our national interest,” Mr Yatani said.
The CS said actions to address climate change encompasses tree planting programmes, protection, and conservation of Kenya’s five water towers (Mau forest complex, Aberdares, Mt Kenya, Cherangani Hills, and Mt Elgon), geothermal development, energy efficiency programmes, and drought management.
“It is against this background that Kenya became the first country in the world to develop the National Policy on Climate Finance to improve our ability to mobilise and effectively manage and track adequate and predictable climate change finance,” said Mr Yatani.
“We already have certain sectors we are looking to invest in, that will reduce green gas emissions. However, the fund will generally enable us to fill the climate finance gaps in all the sectors of the economy,” said KCB Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director, Joshua Oigara. “The accreditation gives us an opportunity to scale up a much more global capability that we didn’t have before,” he adds.
GCF Senior Policy Advisor Peter Odhengo said the Bank was selected under its portfolio of green projects in renewable energies, smart climate, smart agriculture, green water system.
“Moreover, it is a regional bank with a presence across East Africa and South Sudan. Through this accreditation, we will expand green growth across the region,” Mr Odhengo said.
He added that they expect to fund two broad categories of projects: Either climate mitigation or climate adaption investments. They could be in clean transport, food security, smart agriculture and climate resilient infrastructure. 
“Some of the projects that are in the pipeline include Ndarugu Metropolis, which is the first Kenyan private sector driven green project. The other projects include a low carbon sugar initiative by Solidaridad Limited, Restoration of Arid and Semi-arid lands, and Lake Region Economic Bloc (LREB) project for water and energy for the 14 member counties, amongst others,” he said. Apart from the virtual courts, the Judiciary recently introduced the electronic filing system. President expected to give Jubilee government’s scorecard since he took power in 2013. The President is said to be planning a whirlwind tour of the country as soon as the Covid-19 restrictions end in January.