Locho joins Safari Rally CEO Phineas Kimathi, Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed, Helen Shiri and Surinder Thatthi as members of various FIA groups, making Kenya the country with the highest number of FIA representatives on the African continent. Locho has been in motorsports for about three decades.In 1996, he started off by servicing Ali Mwanzia before buying an ex-Sammy Aslam Hyundai in 1998 when he entered the competitive driving scene. From 2015, Locho started handling ARC competitions as a technical delegate in rallies such as the Safari, Mountain Gorilla, Pearl of Africa, Bandama. Musa Locho, one of Kenya’s leading technical officials on the African Rally Championship circuit, has joined the technical team of the International Automobile Federation (FIA).
“After further training and experience, I am now qualified and have been awarded the Gold Status Card by the FIA as a technical delegate,” Locho, himself a former rally driver, explains.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
}



“This now means I can officiate any FIA event globally, including the World Rally Championship (WRC). I have, on several occasions, been invited by Abdul Sidi Rally Academy to share my knowledge with the students.”
Locho joins Safari Rally CEO Phineas Kimathi, Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed, Helen Shiri and Surinder Thatthi as members of various FIA groups, making Kenya the country with the highest number of FIA representatives on the African continent. Locho has been in motorsports for about three decades.





In 1996, he started off by servicing Ali Mwanzia before buying an ex-Sammy Aslam Hyundai in 1998 when he entered the competitive driving scene. From 2015, Locho started handling ARC competitions as a technical delegate in rallies such as the Safari, Mountain Gorilla, Pearl of Africa, Bandama.
****The first African Rally Champion event was held in 1981. The championship is now in its 40th season and features some legendary gravel events.
With eight titles to his name, Zambia’s Satwant Singh is the most decorated driver in the series’ history, while reigning champion Manvir Baryan from Kenya has won back-to-back titles since 2017.
The Kenyan pair placed their Skoda Fabia R5 on the podium on every ARC round they attended, clinching three first places (Cote d’Ivoire, Zambia, Uganda), one second place (South Africa) and one third place (Kenya) to build a huge gap ahead of their rivals, leaving little chance to their closest competitors, Zambia’s Leroy and Urshlla Gomes in second, to catch up with them.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-2");
});
}



****
Sébastien Ogier and Julien Ingrassia are the 2020 World Rally Championship winners, an achievement that celebrates Ogier’s seventh career victory as a driver.
They took victory in a challenging Rally Monza last weekend to win the global title in their first season with Toyota. Ogier now joins Juha Kankkunen in winning drivers’ world titles with three different manufacturers, the Frenchman having won with the VW Polo WRC, Ford M-SPORT and, now, Toyota.
****Did you know that…
The maximum lateness allowed in the Kenya National Rally Championship is 30 minutes between two time controls or over the full duration of the competition.
It also applies in the Service Park. For example, if a driver lost 18 minutes before entering the Service Park, then he or she would be left with 12 minutes as “Maximum Lateness” out of the Service Area or for the rest of the remaining stages. The penalty is 10 seconds per minute late for the entire 30 minutes.
Abdulsidi2@gmail.com Detectives will review footage capturing events of September 21 at around 10am outside the KRA offices. A spot check by the Nation found patients lying helpless in beds with relatives preferring to transfer them to private hospitals The talks aim to reach consensus before referendum signatures are handed to IEBC.