Police are probing a robbery incident at businessman Manu Chandaria's home in Muthaiga that occurred early Monday morning.
Confirming the incident, Nairobi Regional Police Commander Yakub Rashid said the robbers made away with money and other valuables that were in the house.
According to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI), three people, among them a police officer, have been arrested over the violent robbery.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



DCI Monday said that Police Constable Jared Omboga Makambe was on guard at the businessman's residence during the robbery incident. He was arrested alongside two other private guards — Judah Wafula and Stephen Omwega.
“Preliminary investigations have established that the businessman heard a loud bang at his main door and his efforts to call his gate's security phone proved futile. Two armed thugs then gained entry into his house and robbed him [of] unknown amount of money and assorted jewelry at gunpoint,” DCI said.





According to the DCI report, the thugs escaped while firing a G3 rifle said to have been stolen from the police officer on guard at the residence.
“Officers responding to the scene conducted [a] thorough search leading to the recovery of the suspected stolen G3 rifle at a nearby bush,” said DCI.
The three suspects arrested over the incident are being held in custody as police conduct investigations. Mr Noordin Haji terms last week’s decision unfair and without any factual or legal bases. Following a family meeting, former Tetu MP Ndung'u Getheni and his brother have opted for an out-of-court settlement. Mr Noordin Haji terms last week’s decision unfair and without any factual or legal bases. Ms Agnes Wangui said in court papers that the Matungu MP sired two children with her. The televangelist was charged with killing the woman by dangerous driving.