Kano,
Landmines planted by Boko Haram jihadists have killed 11 security personnel, including four soldiers in northeast Nigeria, security sources said Tuesday.
Seven hunters recruited to help the military fight the Islamist insurgents were killed on Tuesday when their vehicle hit a landmine in the village of Kayamla, outside Borno State's capital Maiduguri.



if (shouldRenderAd(true)) {
googletag.cmd.push(function () {
googletag.display("mobile-article-ad-1");
});
setInterval(function refreshAds() {
googletag.cmd.push(function adCommands() {
googletag.pubads().refresh([window.adSlots['mobile-article-ad-1']]);
});
}, 62000);
}



"Seven hunters died in the explosion and nine others are badly injured," Babakura Kolo, the head of a local anti-jihadist militia, told AFP.
"Their vehicle hit a landmine as they were pursuing Boko Haram insurgents," he added.
Another local militiaman confirmed the incident.
Soldiers killed
Four Nigerian soldiers were killed on Monday when their vehicle hit a landmine planted by Boko Haram fighters in Logomani village near the border with Cameroon, two security sources told AFP.





There has been a sharp increase in attacks in northeast Nigeria since the start of the month.
Last week 40 loggers were kidnapped and three killed near the Cameroonian border.
On Christmas Eve, Boko Haram killed 11 people, burnt a church and seized a priest in a village near Chibok, where it notoriously kidnapped more than 200 schoolgirls six years ago.
Boko Haram and a splinter group known as ISWAP have killed 36,000 people in the northeast and forced roughly two million to flee since 2009, according to the United Nations. Officials say more than 300 schoolboys were released Thursday after being abducted by Boko Haram. This comes less than a week after 344 abducted students were rescued from Boko Haram terrorists. The DP's ambition to take over from his boss after the 2022 elections is a road with two paths. The decision is a blow to two aspirants who had applied to the party for sponsorship to contest the seat. This shift of focus is so dire that the World Health Organization now warns that by the end of 2020, more people will have died of malaria than Covid-19.